---
slug: java
title: Java
authors:
  - adil
tags:
  - programming
---

What is Java? Who developed it? What makes it to be different from other languages? What are the benefits of learning Java?

<!-- truncate -->

Java is a programming language that follows object-oriented programming paradigms. What are paradigms? In computer science, we have various programming paradigms. These are the styles of writing code, it's not a language. Some programming paradigms are Procedural, Functional, Object-Oriented, Event-Driven.

Among these most used paradigms are object-oriented and functional. Java was developed by James Gosling, in 1995, for Sun Microsystems which was further developed by " Oracle " in 2010. It was originally called " oke " after an oak tree that stood outside Gosling's office. Later it was renamed to " green " and again it was changed to "Java " inspired by java coffee. Java is very popular and widely used in the industry because Java is an independent programming language that follows the logic “ Write once, run anywhere ”. This means that the compiled code can run on all platforms which support java.

Java is an object-oriented programming language. In java, everything is considered to be an “object” and all the operations are performed using these objects. Java program can be executed on any kind of machine containing any CPU or operating system.

Java allows us to write a program that can do many things simultaneously. Java has a garbage collector in the Java-Runtime environment where the memory will be deallocated when the program exits from the method.
